Ultimate Guide to deal with the latest Amazon algorithm update
One of the best things you can do when you’re selling in a marketplace such as Amazon is to try to get ahead of your competition. For that, you need to understand how the Amazon algorithm works and then you can focus on strategies to maximize your traffic and sales. Optmyads explored the new changes to the latest addition to the Amazon algorithm, what the netizens are calling the “Amazon A10” update.
Difference between the Amazon A9 and A10:
One of the major differences between the Amazon A9 and A10 is that the ranking factors work a bit contrasting now. This means the customer search now holds more relevance than it did before. The customers are now more directed towards the things they are searching for, rather than what amazon thinks they should be looking for.
This will impact the internal sponsored ads, which will be of low importance now. Amazon has now realized that the consumers look way beyond what the sellers have paid for. 
What about the PPC Campaigns: 
Although No one exactly knows how the algorithm works except for Amazon. One thing is pretty clear; in order for the organic listing to rank, you need to have the support of PPC campaigns. But you can notice one thing, when you operate on PPC there is an early rise in your product rankings to create an initial eagerness about your product, but it will slowly die down so that the visibility of the product is leveled in the organic listings. 
To cope with this, we would suggest you check your campaign performance on a daily basis. See on which keywords it is performing and on which it is not. Sort them out and update them accordingly. Use the PPC campaigns for long term capital gains and not for short term boost, and you will be able to adapt accordingly.
More focus on Selling history, Authority and Customer feedback:
The importance of reviews is now more than ever with Amazon A10 in the picture. The updated algorithm mainly focuses on the seller’s authority. The components like how long you’ve been selling, you’re return history and positive feedback can turn the tides in your favor.
The bigger the inventory, the higher the number of feedbacks you get. This will give Amazon’s algorithm a signal that you offer a lot of value to your customers. 
Importance of Impressions: 	
What are the impressions? Impressions tell how many times your product was visible on the Amazon, its affiliates and its partner sites. The higher the impressions the higher your product ranks. It is also important to choose the right category for your products. The product category and relevance are very much important for your product rank. 
Keywords: 
Although A9 seemed to give much weight to the keywords in the order they were placed, but with A10 it has changed. The A10 algorithm seems to see the best possible keywords to optimize the listings in a meaningful way.
Instead of stuffing keywords in the product title, use them in a meaningful way. So that it can grab the attention of the customer and make them buy your item. Use the keywords beautifully in the bullet points and descriptions.
There are also factors like click-through rate, organic sales and internal sales which also contribute as the ranking signals of the Amazon A10 algorithm. 
Conclusion:
The best way to be ahead in the market is to take professional help when it comes to Amazon. And who would that be?
Optmyads, of course. We would handle everything from creating your Amazon storefront to enhancing your brand content over amazon. To know more about the Amazon A10 algorithm please visit the link below. https://www.feedbackexpress.com/what-is-amazons-a10-algorithm/. 
Did you find the strategies listed in this article helpful? Tell me in the comments and please do share the post. I’d appreciate that. 






